\input texinfo    @c -*-texinfo-*-
@comment $Id: sccstress.texi,v 1.9 2010/12/02 01:16:02 jp Exp $
@comment %**start of header
@setfilename sccstress.info
@include version.texi
@settitle sccstress @value{VERSION}
@syncodeindex pg cp
@comment %**end of header

@dircategory sccstress
@direntry
* sccstress: (stress)Invoking stress.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title sccstress
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Jack Peirce (@email{jpeirce@@sourcecode.com})
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top sccstress

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::                    Overview of @command{sccstress}.
* Invoking sccstress::             How to run @command{stress}.
* Examples::                    Some example invocations.
* Copying This Manual::
* Index::
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview of @command{sccstress}

@command{sccstress} is not a benchmark, but is rather a tool designed to put
given subsytems under a specified load.  Instances in which this is useful
include those in which a system administrator wishes to perform tuning
activities, a kernel or libc programmer wishes to evaluate denial of service
possibilities, etc.


@node Invoking sccstress
@chapter Invoking sccstress

@pindex sccstress
@cindex invoking @command{sccstress}

The format for running the @command{sccstress} program is:

@example
@command{sccstress} [@var{option} [@var{args}]] @dots{}
@end example

@command{sccstress} supports the following options:

@table @samp
@item -?
@itemx --help
Show help information.

@itemx --version
Show version information.

@item -v
@itemx --verbose
Turn up verbosity.

@item -q
@itemx --quiet
Turn down verbosity.

@item -n
@itemx --dry-run
Show what would have been done.

@item -t @var{secs}
@itemx --timeout @var{secs}
Time out after @var{secs} seconds.

@itemx --backoff @var{usecs}
Wait for factor of @var{usecs} microseconds before starting work.

@item -c @var{forks}
@itemx --cpu @var{forks}
Spawn @var{forks} processes each spinning on @samp{sqrt()}.

@item -i @var{forks}
@itemx --io @var{forks}
Spawn @var{forks} processes each spinning on @samp{sync()}.

@item -m @var{forks}
@itemx --vm @var{forks}
Spawn @var{forks} processes each spinning on @samp{malloc()}.

@itemx --vm-bytes @var{bytes}
Allocate @var{bytes} number of bytes.  The default is 1.

@itemx --vm-hang
Instruct each vm hog process to go to sleep after allocating memory.  This
contrasts with their normal behavior, which is to free the memory and
reallocate @emph{ad infinitum}.  This is useful for simulating low memory
conditions on a machine.  For example, the following command allocates 256M of
RAM and holds it until killed.

@example
% sccstress --vm 2 --vm-bytes 128M --vm-hang
@end example

@item -d @var{forks}
@itemx --hdd @var{forks}
Spawn @var{forks} processes each spinning on @samp{write()}.

@itemx --hdd-bytes @var{bytes}
Write @var{bytes} number of bytes.  The default is 1GB.

@itemx --hdd-noclean
Do not unlink file(s) to which random ASCII data is written.

@itemx --hdd-targets @var{numtargets} targets
Specify multiple hard drive targets for sccstress to test.

@itemx --auto
Automatically set values for --cpu and --vm

@end table

Note: Suffixes may be s,m,h,d,y (time) or k,m,g (size).

@node Examples
@chapter Example invocations

The simple case is that you just want to bring the system load average up to
an arbitrary value.  The following forks 13 processes, each of which spins
in a tight loop calculating the sqrt() of a random number acquired with
rand().

  % @samp{sccstress -c 13}

Long options are supported, as well as is making the output less verbose.
The following forks 1024 processes, and only reports error messages if any.

  % @samp{sccstress --quiet --cpu 1k}

To see how your system performs when it is I/O bound, use the -i switch.
The following forks 4 processes, each of which spins in a tight loop calling
sync(), which is a system call that flushes memory buffers to disk.

  % @samp{sccstress -i 4}

Multiple hogs may be combined on the same command line.  The following does
everything the preceding examples did in one command, but also turns up the
verbosity level as well as showing how to cause the command to
self-terminate after 1 minute.

  % @samp{sccstress -c 13 -i 4 --verbose --timeout 1m}

You can write a file of arbitrary length to disk.  The file is created with
mkstemp() in the current directory, the default is to unlink it, but
unlinking can be overridden with the --hdd-noclean flag.

  % @samp{sccstress -d 1 --hdd-noclean --hdd-bytes 13}

Large file support is enabled.

  % @samp{sccstress -d 1 --hdd-noclean --hdd-bytes 3G}

@node Copying This Manual
@appendix Copying This Manual

You may copy this manual under the terms of the GNU General Public License.

@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye
